♪I found a faint light
in the fading dusk♪
♪And met your steady gaze♪
♪One knowing glance,
and side by side we walk on♪
♪Longing finds no place to rest♪
♪Through drifting wind and rain♪
♪You are the prayer within my hands♪
♪A single second frozen,
tears in focus, my heart already knows♪
♪We made a promise long ago♪
♪For all our days to come♪
♪You are the fate I cannot outrun♪
♪How much must I let go
to trade for one moment?♪
♪Holding you close♪
♪Would that be enough?♪
=Echoes of Love=
(Adapted from the signed screenplay
Echoes of Love on Migu Reading)
=Episode 17=
How dare you.
You set fire to the Drum of Grievance.
Do you understand
the seriousness of this crime?
Official, forgive me.
I have a grave injustice to report.
I accuse Grand Commandant Gao Deng
and Zhou Zihua of Huanyue House.
They formed the Shengtang Guild,
using courtesans as enticement,
to trade power and favor,
and build their own faction.
They colluded with fifty-six officials,
merchants, and men of influence,
undermining the court
and disregarding lives.
There is a chart of their crimes
and a register of names.
I am a witness.
The evidence is complete.
I ask the official to investigate.
Bring it forward.
The evidence will remain in my custody
for presentation in court.
But you burned the Drum of Grievance.
The offense is serious.
Detain her pending trial.
(And you think you can
bring down the Shengtang Guild?)
Song Zhiyun stands accused,
having filed charges
against Grand Commandant Gao Deng
and Zhou Zihua of Huanyue House.
As witness and evidence are in place,
Huanyue House and
the Shengtang Guild are to be sealed.
Further evidence will be gathered,
and judgment rendered thereafter.
(The Court of Judicial Review)
Song Zhiyun,
it seems Official Gu
has cast you aside as well.
Retribution never fails.
Who would have thought
we would end up like this,
locked in the same cell?
You caused the deaths of so many.
Do not compare yourself to me.
You simply do not understand.
Everything I did was for your sake.
Since you chose this life
in the pleasure quarters,
you should have known the cost.
If I had not
managed things so carefully,
how would you have met Gu Chengye,
or Shanguan Yu?
She was my finest creation.
I gave her my full devotion,
yet she disregarded it all.
For your sake,
she defied me at every turn.
Now that she has fallen to this end,
she does not even come to see me.
Shanguan Yu.
You still dare speak her name?
It was because of you,
because of your Shengtang Guild,
that she died.
She is dead?
I warned her long ago
to stay away from you.
But she would not listen.
And now,
she has lost her life as well.
The flute player is gone,
the jade tower stands empty.
With whom shall I lean in shared sorrow?
She was simply...
She was too stubborn.
She could not even protect herself,
yet she insisted on shielding others.
You have no idea how it pained me.
I should have sent her away long ago,
far from this place of turmoil.
But I could not leave,
nor could I send them away.
It was too late.
Too late.
Do you think
I committed every wrong
in Huanyue House?
Huanyue House was not always like this.
In those days, Madam
taught us to sing and dance, the qin,
chess, calligraphy, and painting.
I was once her most favored pupil.
Those were
the happiest days of my life.
You mean Haitang Madam?
What a pity.
When Haitang became Ruyi,
everything changed.
So,
Haitang Madam
was indeed killed by Madam Ruyi?
And what of it?
What could you possibly do to them?
Only I
labored in silence,
waiting for the right moment,
only to become
their scapegoat in the end.
Official Gu, Commander
of the Imperial Guard, has arrived.
There are hidden circumstances
in the Shengtang Guild case.
It is now under
the Imperial Guard's authority.
The officials implicated
have been released.
At present,
we are here to interrogate
the principal suspect, Song Zhiyun.
Yes.
The Shengtang Guild
truly can
turn the tides at will.
Gu Chengye.
I exhausted every scheme,
and weighed countless outcomes.
But I never imagined
Shanguan Yu would die.
I...
In the end, I still lost.
No.
We will win.
(Gu Residence)
You have not eaten for days.
I found this
in her hand.
She kept it with her all along.
♪Night rain falls before the courtyard♪
♪Illuminating the partings
of the mortal world♪
♪Strangers meet again,
the past ablaze in vivid hues♪
♪A sharp arrow pierces through memory♪
Take me to her.
♪Longing spreads like ink♪
♪Beaded curtains divide love
and hate at either end♪
Take me to her.
♪After endless sorrow endured
love is a word too hard to sever♪
Do not look for her.
I have already laid her to rest.
♪Past ties fade
like a dream gone cold♪
♪In giving all, we found our only joy♪
♪That year we laughed
beneath pear blossoms♪
♪One night of snow
fell wild and restless♪
Let her remain in your memory
as she was at her most radiant.
♪With blood upon my heart,
I bid love farewell♪
♪No more longing will enter my dreams♪